The Logging operator manages the log collectors and log forwarders of your logging infrastructure, and the routing rules that specify where you want to send your different log messages.

The **log collectors** are endpoint agents that collect the logs of your Kubernetes nodes and send them to the log forwarders. Logging operator currently uses Fluent Bit as log collector agents.

The **log forwarder** instance receives, filters, and transforms the incoming the logs, and transfers them to one or more destination outputs. The Logging operator supports Fluentd and syslog-ng as log forwarders. Which log forwarder is best for you depends on your logging requirements. For tips, see {{% xref "/docs/one-eye/slogging-operator/configuration/fluentd-vs-syslog-ng.md" %}}.

You can filter and process the incoming log messages using the [**flow**]({{< relref "/docs/one-eye/logging-operator/configuration/flow.md" >}}) custom resource of the log forwarder to route them to the appropriate [**output**]({{< relref "/docs/one-eye/logging-operator/configuration/output.md" >}}). The outputs are the destinations where you want to send your log messages, for example, Elasticsearch, or an Amazon S3 bucket. You can also define cluster-wide outputs and flows, for example, to use a centralized output that namespaced users can reference but cannot modify. Note that flows and outputs are specific to the type of log forwarder you use (Fluentd or syslog-ng).

You can configure the Logging operator using the following Custom Resource Definitions.

- [logging]({{< relref "docs/one-eye/logging-operator/logging-infrastructure/logging.md" >}}) - The `logging` resource defines the logging infrastructure (the log collectors and forwarders) for your cluster that collects and transports your log messages. It also contains configurations for Fluent Bit, Fluentd, and syslog-ng.
- CRDs for Fluentd:
    - [output]({{< relref "docs/one-eye/logging-operator/configuration/output.md" >}}) - Defines a Fluentd Output for a logging flow, where the log messages are sent using Fluentd. This is a namespaced resource. See also `clusteroutput`. To configure syslog-ng outputs, see `SyslogNGOutput`.
    - [flow]({{< relref "docs/one-eye/logging-operator/configuration/flow.md" >}}) - Defines a Fluentd logging flow using `filters` and `outputs`. Basically, the flow routes the selected log messages to the specified outputs. This is a namespaced resource. See also `clusterflow`. To configure syslog-ng flows, see `SyslogNGFlow`.
    - [clusteroutput]({{< relref "docs/one-eye/logging-operator/configuration/output.md" >}}) - Defines a Fluentd output that is available from all flows and clusterflows. The operator evaluates clusteroutputs in the `controlNamespace` only unless `allowClusterResourcesFromAllNamespaces` is set to true.
    - [clusterflow]({{< relref "docs/one-eye/logging-operator/configuration/flow.md" >}}) - Defines a Fluentd logging flow that collects logs from all namespaces by default. The operator evaluates clusterflows in the `controlNamespace` only unless `allowClusterResourcesFromAllNamespaces` is set to true. To configure syslog-ng clusterflows, see `SyslogNGClusterFlow`.
- CRDs for syslog-ng (these resources like their Fluentd counterparts, but are tailored to features available via syslog-ng):
    - [SyslogNGOutput]({{< relref "docs/one-eye/logging-operator/configuration/output.md#syslogngoutput" >}}) - Defines a syslog-ng Output for a logging flow, where the log messages are sent using Fluentd. This is a namespaced resource. See also `SyslogNGClusterOutput`. To configure Fluentd outputs, see `output`.
    - [SyslogNGFlow]({{< relref "docs/one-eye/logging-operator/configuration/flow.md#syslogngflow" >}}) - Defines a syslog-ng logging flow using `filters` and `outputs`. Basically, the flow routes the selected log messages to the specified outputs. This is a namespaced resource. See also `SyslogNGClusterFlow`. To configure Fluentd flows, see `flow`.
    - [SyslogNGClusterOutput]({{< relref "docs/one-eye/logging-operator/configuration/output.md#syslogngoutput" >}}) - Defines a syslog-ng output that is available from all flows and clusterflows. The operator evaluates clusteroutputs in the `controlNamespace` only unless `allowClusterResourcesFromAllNamespaces` is set to true.
    - [SyslogNGClusterFlow]({{< relref "docs/one-eye/logging-operator/configuration/flow.md#syslogngflow" >}}) - Defines a syslog-ng logging flow that collects logs from all namespaces by default. The operator evaluates clusterflows in the `controlNamespace` only unless `allowClusterResourcesFromAllNamespaces` is set to true. To configure Fluentd clusterflows, see `clusterflow`.
