The Logging operator manages the log collectors and log forwarders of your logging infrastructure, and the routing rules that specify where you want to send your different log messages.

The **log collectors** are endpoint agents that collect the logs of your Kubernetes nodes and send them to the log forwarders. Logging operator currently uses Fluent Bit as log collector agents.

The **log forwarder** (also called **log aggregator**) instance receives, filters, and transforms the incoming logs, and transfers them to one or more destination outputs. The Logging operator supports Fluentd and syslog-ng as log forwarders. Which log forwarder is best for you depends on your logging requirements. For tips, see {{% xref "/docs/configuration/fluentd-vs-syslog-ng.md" %}}.

You can filter and process the incoming log messages using the [**flow**]({{< relref "/docs/configuration/flow.md" >}}) custom resource of the log forwarder to route them to the appropriate [**output**]({{< relref "/docs/configuration/output.md" >}}). The outputs are the destinations where you want to send your log messages, for example, Elasticsearch, or an Amazon S3 bucket. You can also define cluster-wide outputs and flows, for example, to use a centralized output that namespaced users can reference but cannot modify. Note that flows and outputs are specific to the type of log forwarder you use (Fluentd or syslog-ng).

You can configure the Logging operator using the following Custom Resource Definitions.

- [logging]({{< relref "/docs/logging-infrastructure/logging.md" >}}) - The `logging` resource defines the logging infrastructure (the log collectors and forwarders) for your cluster that collects and transports your log messages. It can also contain configurations for Fluent Bit, Fluentd, and syslog-ng. (Starting with Logging operator version 4.5, you can also configure [Fluent Bit]({{< relref "/docs/logging-infrastructure/fluentbit.md" >}}), [Fluentd]({{< relref "/docs/logging-infrastructure/fluentd.md" >}}), and [syslog-ng]({{< relref "/docs/logging-infrastructure/syslog-ng.md" >}}) as separate resources.)
- CRDs for Fluentd:
    - [output]({{< relref "/docs/configuration/output.md" >}}) - Defines a Fluentd Output for a logging flow, where the log messages are sent using Fluentd. This is a namespaced resource. See also `clusteroutput`. To configure syslog-ng outputs, see `SyslogNGOutput`.
    - [flow]({{< relref "/docs/configuration/flow.md" >}}) - Defines a Fluentd logging flow using `filters` and `outputs`. Basically, the flow routes the selected log messages to the specified outputs. This is a namespaced resource. See also `clusterflow`. To configure syslog-ng flows, see `SyslogNGFlow`.
    - [clusteroutput]({{< relref "/docs/configuration/output.md" >}}) - Defines a Fluentd output that is available from all flows and clusterflows. The operator evaluates clusteroutputs in the `controlNamespace` only unless `allowClusterResourcesFromAllNamespaces` is set to true.
    - [clusterflow]({{< relref "/docs/configuration/flow.md" >}}) - Defines a Fluentd logging flow that collects logs from all namespaces by default. The operator evaluates clusterflows in the `controlNamespace` only unless `allowClusterResourcesFromAllNamespaces` is set to true. To configure syslog-ng clusterflows, see `SyslogNGClusterFlow`.
- CRDs for syslog-ng (these resources like their Fluentd counterparts, but are tailored to features available via syslog-ng):
    - [SyslogNGOutput]({{< relref "/docs/configuration/output.md#syslogngoutput" >}}) - Defines a syslog-ng Output for a logging flow, where the log messages are sent using syslog-ng. This is a namespaced resource. See also `SyslogNGClusterOutput`. To configure Fluentd outputs, see `output`.
    - [SyslogNGFlow]({{< relref "/docs/configuration/flow.md#syslogngflow" >}}) - Defines a syslog-ng logging flow using `filters` and `outputs`. Basically, the flow routes the selected log messages to the specified outputs. This is a namespaced resource. See also `SyslogNGClusterFlow`. To configure Fluentd flows, see `flow`.
    - [SyslogNGClusterOutput]({{< relref "/docs/configuration/output.md#syslogngoutput" >}}) - Defines a syslog-ng output that is available from all flows and clusterflows. The operator evaluates clusteroutputs in the `controlNamespace` only unless `allowClusterResourcesFromAllNamespaces` is set to true.
    - [SyslogNGClusterFlow]({{< relref "/docs/configuration/flow.md#syslogngflow" >}}) - Defines a syslog-ng logging flow that collects logs from all namespaces by default. The operator evaluates clusterflows in the `controlNamespace` only unless `allowClusterResourcesFromAllNamespaces` is set to true. To configure Fluentd clusterflows, see `clusterflow`.
